1.1 Review
1. Distinguish between the terms inquiry question, hypothesis and purpose of an
investigation

Inquiry question - question which guides investigation
Hypothesis - A cause-effect statement tested through investigation
Purpose of investigation - purpose statement outlining aim of investigation

2. Which of the following describes an inquiry question?
A: How does the diffraction pattern of light depend on wavelength?

3. For each of the following hyoptheses, select the independent and dependent
variables.
a. If water at 90degC is allowed to cool to room temperature in different shaped
containers, the container with the largest surface area will reach room
temperature in a shorter period of time.
  IV - surface area of container
  DV - time to reach room temperature
b. If the launch angle of a projectile is 45deg, then the horizontal distance
travelled will be a maximum.
  IV - launch angle
  DV - horizontal distance travelled
c. If you increase the thickness of foam bumpers attached to the front of a cart
travelling at 1ms^-1, then the force experienced during a head-on collision will
be reduced.
  IV - thickness of foam bumpers
  DV - force experienced
d. If the emf applied to a circuit consisting of ohmic resistors is increased,
then the total current in the circuit will increase proportionally
  IV - emf applied to circuit
  DV - total current in circuit

4. In an experiment about friction a student records the surface material that a
ball is rolled over. What type of variable is the surface material?
  Independent variable

5. Which of the following is the most specific inquiry question?
  B. Does the use of a foam helmet reduce the impact force when falling from a
  bike?

6. Which of the following inquiry questions is objective and specific?
How does the angle of release affect the period of motion of a pendulum?

7. Select the best hypotheses from the three options below. Give reasons for
your choice.
  Hypothesis 1: If the mass on a spring is increased, then the length the spring
  is extended will increase proportionally.
  The hypothesis follows the if-then structure and also describes the predicted
  relationship between two specific variables.

1.2 Review
1. Given the correct term (accurate, reliable or valid) that describes an
experiment with each of the following conditions.
a. The aim addresses the hypothesis and aims.
  Valid
b. The experiment is repeated and consistent results are obtained.
  Reliable
c. 
